Microsoft Products and Services Data Protection Addendum (DPA) | 英文 | Last updated September 15, 2022 (Worldwide English)
来源: https://www.shl.com/assets/documents/microsoft-azure-sccs.pdf | 抓取日期: 2026-09-19
================================================================================
Microsoft Products and Services Data Protection Addendum
Last updated September 15, 2022
Published in English on September 15, 2022. Translations will be published by Microsoft when available. These commitments are binding on Microsoft as of September 15, 2022.

Introduction
The parties agree that this Microsoft Products and Services Data Protection Addendum ("DPA") sets forth their obligations with respect to the processing and security of Customer Data, Professional Services Data, and Personal Data in connection with the Products and Services. The DPA is incorporated by reference into the Product Terms and other Microsoft agreements. The parties also agree that, unless a separate Professional Services agreement exists, this DPA governs the processing and security of Professional Services Data. Separate terms, including different privacy and security terms, govern Customer's use of Non-Microsoft Products.
In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the DPA Terms and any other terms in Customer's volume licensing agreement, the DPA Terms shall prevail. The provisions of the DPA Terms supersede any conflicting provisions of the Microsoft Privacy Statement that otherwise may apply to processing of Customer Data, Professional Services Data, or Personal Data, as defined herein.
Microsoft makes the commitments in this DPA to all customers with volume license agreements. These commitments are binding on Microsoft with regard to Customer regardless of (1) the Product Terms that are otherwise applicable to any given Product subscription or license, or (2) any other agreement that references the Product Terms.
Applicable DPA Terms and Updates
Limits on Updates
When Customer renews or purchases a new subscription to a Product or enters into a work order for a Professional Service, the then-current DPA Terms will apply and will not change during Customer's subscription for that Product or term for that Professional Service. When Customer obtains a perpetual license to Software, the then-current DPA Terms will apply (following the same provision for determining the applicable then-current Product Terms for that Software in Customer's volume licensing) and will not change during Customer's license for that Software.
New Features, Supplements, or Related Software
Notwithstanding the foregoing limits on updates, when Microsoft introduces features, offerings, supplements or related software that are new (i.e., that were not previously included with the Products or Services), Microsoft may provide terms or make updates to the DPA that apply to Customer's use of those new features, offerings, supplements or related software. If those terms include any material adverse changes to the DPA Terms, Microsoft will provide Customer a choice to use the new features, offerings, supplements, or related software, without loss of existing functionality of a generally available Product or Professional Service. If Customer does not install or use the new features, offerings, supplements, or related software, the corresponding new terms will not apply.
Government Regulation and Requirements
Notwithstanding the foregoing limits on updates, Microsoft may modify or terminate a Product or Professional Service in any country or jurisdiction where there is any current or future government requirement or obligation that (1) subjects Microsoft to any regulation or requirement not generally applicable to businesses operating there, (2) presents a hardship for Microsoft to continue operating the Product or offering the Professional Service without modification, and/or (3) causes Microsoft to believe the DPA Terms or the Product or Professional Service may conflict with any such requirement or obligation.
Electronic Notices
Microsoft may provide Customer with information and notices about Products and Services electronically, including via email, through the portal for an Online Service, or through a web site that Microsoft identifies. Notice is given as of the date it is made available by Microsoft.
Prior Versions
The DPA Terms provide terms for Products and Services that are currently available. For earlier versions of the DPA Terms, Customer may refer to https://aka.ms/licensingdocs or contact its reseller or Microsoft Account Manager.

Definitions
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this DPA will have the meanings provided in the volume license agreement. The following defined terms are used in this DPA:
"Customer Data" means all data, including all text, sound, video, or image files, and software, that are provided to Microsoft by, or on behalf of, Customer through use of the Online Service. Customer Data does not include Professional Services Data.
"Data Protection Requirements" means the GDPR, Local EU/EEA Data Protection Laws, and any applicable laws, regulations, and other legal requirements relating to (a) privacy and data security; and (b) the use, collection, retention, storage, security, disclosure, transfer, disposal, and other processing of any Personal Data.
"DPA Terms" means the terms in the DPA and any Product-specific terms in the Product Terms that specifically supplement or modify the privacy and security terms in the DPA for a specific Product (or feature of a Product). In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the DPA and such Product-specific terms, the Product-specific terms shall prevail as to the applicable Product (or feature of that Product).
"GDPR" means Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation).
"Local EU/EEA Data Protection Laws" means any subordinate legislation and regulation implementing the GDPR.
"GDPR Terms" means the terms in Attachment 1, under which Microsoft makes binding commitments regarding its processing of Personal Data as required by Article 28 of the GDPR.
"Personal Data" means any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person. An identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that natural person.
"Product" has the meaning provided in the volume license agreement. For ease of reference, "Product" includes Online Services and Software, each as defined in the volume license agreement.
"Products and Services" means Products and Professional Services. Product and Professional Service availability may vary by region and applicability of this DPA to specific Products and Professional Services is subject to the limitations in the Scope section in this DPA.
"Professional Services" means the following services: (a) Microsoft's consulting services, consisting of planning, advice, guidance, data migration, deployment and solution/software development services provided under a Microsoft Enterprise Services Work Order or a Cloud Workload Acceleration Agreement that incorporates this DPA by reference; and (b) technical support services provided by Microsoft that help customers identify and resolve issues affecting Products, including technical support provided as part of Microsoft Unified Support or Premier Support Services, and any other commercial technical support services. The Professional Services do not include the Products or, for purposes of the DPA only, Supplemental Professional Services.
"Professional Services Data" means all data, including all text, sound, video, image files or software, that are provided to Microsoft, by or on behalf of a Customer (or that Customer authorizes Microsoft to obtain from a Product) or otherwise obtained or processed by or on behalf of Microsoft through an engagement with Microsoft to obtain Professional Services.
"2021 Standard Contractual Clauses" means the standard data protection clauses (processor-to-processor module) between Microsoft Ireland Operations Limited and Microsoft Corporation for the transfer of personal data from processors in the EEA to processors established in third countries which do not ensure an adequate level of data protection, as described in Article 46 of the GDPR and approved by the European Commission in decision 2021/914/EC, dated 4 June 2021.
"Subprocessor" means other processors used by Microsoft to process Customer Data, Professional Services Data, and Personal Data, as described in Article 28 of the GDPR.
"Supplemental Professional Services" means support requests escalated from support to a Product engineering team for resolution and other consulting and support from Microsoft provided in connection with Products or a volume license agreement that are not included in the definition of Professional Services.
Lower case terms used but not defined in this DPA, such as "personal data breach", "processing", "controller", "processor", "profiling", "personal data", and "data subject" will have the same meaning as set forth in Article 4 of the GDPR, irrespective of whether GDPR applies.

General Terms
Compliance with Laws
Microsoft will comply with all laws and regulations applicable to its providing the Products and Services, including security breach notification law and Data Protection Requirements. However, Microsoft is not responsible for compliance with any laws or regulations applicable to Customer or Customer's industry that are not generally applicable to information technology service providers. Microsoft does not determine whether Customer's data includes information subject to any specific law or regulation. All Security Incidents are subject to the Security Incident Notification terms below.
Customer must comply with all laws and regulations applicable to its use of Products and Services, including laws related to biometric data, confidentiality of communications, and Data Protection Requirements. Customer is responsible for determining whether the Products and Services are appropriate for storage and processing of information subject to any specific law or regulation and for using the Products and Services in a manner consistent with Customer's legal and regulatory obligations. Customer is responsible for responding to any request from a third party regarding Customer's use of Products and Services, such as a request to take down content under the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act or other applicable laws.

Data Protection Terms
This section of the DPA includes the following subsections:
Scope; Nature of Data Processing; Ownership; Disclosure of Processed Data; Processing of Personal Data; GDPR; Data Security; Security Incident Notification; Data Transfers and Location; Data Retention and Deletion; Processor Confidentiality Commitment; Notice and Controls on use of Subprocessors; Educational Institutions; CJIS Customer Agreement; HIPAA Business Associate; California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA); Biometric Data; Supplemental Professional Services; How to Contact Microsoft; Appendix A - Security Measures; Appendix B - Data Subjects and Categories of Personal Data; Appendix C - Additional Safeguards Addendum.

Scope
The DPA Terms apply to all Products and Services except as described in this section.
The DPA Terms will not apply to any Products specifically identified as excluded, or to the extent identified as excluded, in the Product Terms, which are governed by the privacy and security terms in the applicable Product-specific terms.
For clarity, the DPA Terms apply only to the processing of data in environments controlled by Microsoft and Microsoft's subprocessors. This includes data sent to Microsoft by Products and Services but does not include data that remains on Customer's premises or in any Customer selected third party operating environments.
For Supplemental Professional Services, Microsoft only makes the commitments in the Supplemental Professional Services section below.
Previews may employ lesser or different privacy and security measures than those typically present in the Products and Services. Unless otherwise noted, Customer should not use Previews to process Personal Data or other data that is subject to legal or regulatory compliance requirements. For Products, the following terms in this DPA do not apply to Previews: Processing of Personal Data; GDPR, Data Security, and HIPAA Business Associate. For Professional Services, offerings designated as Previews or Limited Release only meet the terms of the Supplemental Professional Services.

Nature of Data Processing; Ownership
Microsoft will use and otherwise process Customer Data, Professional Services Data, and Personal Data only as described and subject to the limitations provided below (a) to provide Customer the Products and Services in accordance with Customer's documented instructions and (b) for business operations incident to providing the Products and Services to Customer. As between the parties, Customer retains all right, title and interest in and to Customer Data and Professional Services Data. Microsoft acquires no rights in Customer Data or Professional Services Data, other than the rights Customer grants to Microsoft in this section. This paragraph does not affect Microsoft's rights in software or services Microsoft licenses to Customer.
Processing to Provide Customer the Products and Services
For purposes of this DPA, "to provide" a Product consists of:
Delivering functional capabilities as licensed, configured, and used by Customer and its users, including providing personalized user experiences;
Troubleshooting (preventing, detecting, and repairing problems); and
Keeping Products up to date and performant, and enhancing user productivity, reliability, efficacy, quality, and security.
For purposes of this DPA, "to provide" Professional Services consists of:
Delivering the Professional Services, including providing technical support, professional planning, advice, guidance, data migration, deployment, and solution/software development services.
Troubleshooting (preventing, detecting, investigating, mitigating, and repairing problems, including Security Incidents and problems identified in the Professional Services or relevant Product(s) during delivery of Professional Services); and
Enhancing delivery, efficacy, quality, and security of Professional Services and the underlying Product(s) based on issues identified while providing Professional Services, including fixing software defects and otherwise keeping Products and Services up to date and performant.
In each case, providing the Products and Services is conducted in view of security obligations under Data Protection Requirements.
When providing Products and Services, Microsoft will not use or otherwise process Customer Data, Professional Services Data, or Personal Data for: (a) user profiling, (b) advertising or similar commercial purposes, or (c) market research aimed at creating new functionalities, services, or products or any other purpose, unless such use or processing is in accordance with Customer's documented instructions.
Processing for Business Operations Incident to Providing the Products and Services to Customer
For purposes of this DPA, "business operations" means the processing operations authorized by customer in this section.
Customer authorizes Microsoft: (i.) to create aggregated statistical, non-personal data from data containing pseudonymized identifiers (such as usage logs containing unique, pseudonymized identifiers); and (ii.) to calculate statistics related to Customer Data or Professional Services Data in each case without accessing or analyzing the content of Customer Data or Professional Services Data and limited to achieving the purposes below, each as incident to providing the Products and Services to Customer. Those purposes are: billing and account management; compensation such as calculating employee commissions and partner incentives; internal reporting and business modeling, such as forecasting, revenue, capacity planning, and product strategy; and financial reporting. When processing for these business operations, Microsoft will apply principles of data minimization and will not use or otherwise process Customer Data, Professional Services Data, or Personal Data for: (a) user profiling, (b) advertising or similar commercial purposes, or (c) any other purpose, other than for the purposes set out in this section. In addition, as with all processing under this DPA, processing for business operations remains subject to Microsoft's confidentiality obligations and commitments under Disclosure of Processed Data.

Disclosure of Processed Data
Microsoft will not disclose or provide access to any Processed Data except: (1) as Customer directs; (2) as described in this DPA; or (3) as required by law. For purposes of this section, "Processed Data" means: (a) Customer Data; (b) Professional Services Data; (c) Personal Data; and (d) any other data processed by Microsoft in connection with the Products and Services that is Customer's confidential information under the volume license agreement. All processing of Processed Data is subject to Microsoft's obligation of confidentiality under the volume license agreement.
Microsoft will not disclose or provide access to any Processed Data to law enforcement unless required by law. If law enforcement contacts Microsoft with a demand for Processed Data, Microsoft will attempt to redirect the law enforcement agency to request that data directly from Customer. If compelled to disclose or provide access to any Processed Data to law enforcement, Microsoft will promptly notify Customer and provide a copy of the demand unless legally prohibited from doing so.
Microsoft will only disclose or provide access to any Processed Data as required by law provided that the laws and practices respect the essence of the fundamental rights and freedoms and do not exceed what is necessary and proportionate in a democratic society and, as applicable, to safeguard one of the objectives listed in Article 23(1) of GDPR. Upon receipt of any other third-party request for Processed Data, Microsoft will promptly notify Customer unless prohibited by law. Microsoft will reject the request unless required by law to comply. If the request is valid, Microsoft will attempt to redirect the third party to request the data directly from Customer.
Microsoft will not provide any third party: (a) direct, indirect, blanket, or unfettered access to Processed Data; (b) platform encryption keys used to secure Processed Data or the ability to break such encryption; or (c) access to Processed Data if Microsoft is aware that the data is to be used for purposes other than those stated in the third party's request. In support of the above, Microsoft may provide Customer's basic contact information to the third party.

Processing of Personal Data; GDPR
All Personal Data processed by Microsoft in connection with providing the Products and Services is obtained as part of either (a) Customer Data, (b) Professional Services Data, or (c) data generated, derived or collected by Microsoft, including data sent to Microsoft as a result of a Customer's use of service-based capabilities or obtained by Microsoft from locally installed software. Personal Data provided to Microsoft by, or on behalf of, Customer through use of the Online Service is also Customer Data. Personal Data provided to Microsoft by, or on behalf of, Customer through use of the Professional Services is also Professional Services Data. Pseudonymized identifiers may be included in data processed by Microsoft in connection with providing the Products and are also Personal Data. Any Personal Data pseudonymized, or de-identified but not anonymized, or Personal Data derived from Personal Data is also Personal Data.
To the extent Microsoft is a processor or subprocessor of Personal Data subject to the GDPR, the GDPR Terms in Attachment 1 govern that processing and the parties also agree to the following terms in this sub-section ("Processing of Personal Data; GDPR"):
Processor and Controller Roles and Responsibilities
Customer and Microsoft agree that Customer is the controller of Personal Data and Microsoft is the processor of such data, except (a) when Customer acts as a processor of Personal Data, in which case Microsoft is a subprocessor; or (b) as stated otherwise in the Product-specific terms or this DPA. When Microsoft acts as the processor or subprocessor of Personal Data, it will process Personal Data only on documented instructions from Customer. Customer agrees that its volume licensing agreement (including the DPA Terms and any applicable updates), along with the product documentation and Customer's use and configuration of features in the Products, are Customer's complete documented instructions to Microsoft for the processing of Personal Data, or the Professional Services documentation and Customer's use of the Professional Services. Information on use and configuration of the Products can be found at https://docs.microsoft.com (or a successor location) or other agreement incorporating this DPA. Any additional or alternate instructions must be agreed to according to the process for amending Customer's agreement. In any instance where the GDPR applies and Customer is a processor, Customer warrants to Microsoft that Customer's instructions, including appointment of Microsoft as a processor or subprocessor, have been authorized by the relevant controller.
To the extent Microsoft uses or otherwise processes Personal Data subject to the GDPR for business operations incident to providing the Products and Services to Customer, Microsoft will comply with the obligations of an independent data controller under GDPR for such use. Microsoft is accepting the added responsibilities of a data "controller" under GDPR for such processing to: (a) act consistent with regulatory requirements, to the extent required under GDPR; and (b) provide increased transparency to Customers and confirm Microsoft's accountability for such processing. Microsoft employs safeguards to protect Customer Data, Professional Services Data, and Personal Data in such processing, including those identified in this DPA and those contemplated in Article 6(4) of the GDPR. With respect to processing of Personal Data under this paragraph, Microsoft makes the commitments set forth in the Additional Safeguards section; for those purposes, (i) any Microsoft disclosure of Personal Data, as described in the Additional Safeguards section, that has been transferred in connection with business operations is deemed a "Relevant Disclosure" and (ii) the commitments in the Additional Safeguards section apply to such Personal Data.
Processing Details
The parties acknowledge and agree that:
Subject Matter. The subject-matter of the processing is limited to Personal Data within the scope of the section of this DPA entitled "Nature of Data Processing; Ownership" above and the GDPR.
Duration of the Processing. The duration of the processing shall be in accordance with Customer instructions and the terms of the DPA.
Nature and Purpose of the Processing. The nature and purpose of the processing shall be to provide the Products and Services pursuant to Customer's volume licensing agreement and for business operations incident to providing the Products and Services to Customer (as further described in the section of this DPA entitled "Nature of Data Processing; Ownership" above).
Categories of Data. The types of Personal Data processed by Microsoft when providing the Products and Services include: (i) Personal Data that Customer elects to include in Customer Data and Professional Services Data; and (ii) those expressly identified in Article 4 of the GDPR that may be generated, derived or collected by Microsoft, including data sent to Microsoft as a result of a Customer's use of service-based capabilities or obtained by Microsoft from locally installed software. The types of Personal Data that Customer elects to include in Customer Data and Professional Services Data may be any categories of Personal Data identified in records maintained by Customer acting as controller pursuant to Article 30 of the GDPR, including the categories of Personal Data set forth in Appendix B.
Data Subjects. The categories of data subjects are Customer's representatives and end users, such as employees, contractors, collaborators, and customers, and may include any other categories of data subjects as identified in records maintained by Customer acting as controller pursuant to Article 30 of the GDPR, including the categories of data subjects set forth in Appendix B.
Data Subject Rights; Assistance with Requests
Microsoft will make available to Customer, in a manner consistent with the functionality of the Products and Services and Microsoft's role as a processor of Personal Data of data subjects, the ability to fulfill data subject requests to exercise their rights under the GDPR. If Microsoft receives a request from Customer's data subject to exercise one or more of its rights under the GDPR in connection with the Products and Services for which Microsoft is a data processor or subprocessor, Microsoft will redirect the data subject to make its request directly to Customer. Customer will be responsible for responding to any such request including, where necessary, by using the functionality of the Products and Services. Microsoft shall comply with reasonable requests by Customer to assist with Customer's response to such a data subject request.
Records of Processing Activities
To the extent the GDPR requires Microsoft to collect and maintain records of certain information relating to Customer, Customer will, where requested, supply such information to Microsoft and keep it accurate and up-to-date. Microsoft may make any such information available to the supervisory authority if required by the GDPR.

Data Security
Security Practices and Policies
Microsoft will implement and maintain appropriate technical and organizational measures to protect Customer Data, Professional Services Data, and Personal Data against accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of, or access to, personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed. Those measures shall be set forth in a Microsoft Security Policy. Microsoft will make that policy available to Customer, along with other information reasonably requested by Customer regarding Microsoft security practices and policies.
In addition, those measures shall comply with the requirements set forth in ISO 27001, ISO 27002, and ISO 27018. A description of the security controls for these requirements is available to Customers.
Each Core Online Service also complies with the control standards and frameworks shown in the table in the Product Terms. Each Core Online Service and Professional Service implements and maintains the security measures set forth in Appendix A for the protection of Customer Data and Professional Services Data.
Microsoft may add industry or government standards at any time. Microsoft will not eliminate ISO 27001, ISO 27002, ISO 27018 or any standard or framework in the table for Core Online Services in the Product Terms, unless it is no longer used in the industry and it is replaced with a successor (if any).
Data Encryption
Customer Data and Professional Services Data (each including any Personal Data therein) in transit over public networks between Customer and Microsoft, or between Microsoft data centers, is encrypted by default.
Microsoft also encrypts Customer Data stored at rest in Online Services and Professional Services Data stored at rest. In the case of Online Services on which Customer or a third-party acting on Customer's behalf may build applications (e.g., certain Azure Services), encryption of data stored in such applications may be employed at the discretion of Customer, using either capabilities provided by Microsoft or obtained by Customer from third parties.
Data Access
Microsoft employs least privilege access mechanisms to control access to Customer Data and Professional Services Data (including any Personal Data therein). Role-based access controls are employed to ensure that access to Customer Data and Professional Services Data required for service operations is for an appropriate purpose and approved with management oversight. For Core Online Services and Professional Services, Microsoft maintains Access Control mechanisms described in the table entitled "Security Measures" in Appendix A; and there is no standing access by Microsoft personnel to Customer Data, and any required access is for a limited time.
Customer Responsibilities
Customer is solely responsible for making an independent determination as to whether the technical and organizational measures for Products and Services meet Customer's requirements, including any of its security obligations under applicable Data Protection Requirements. Customer acknowledges and agrees that (taking into account the state of the art, the costs of implementation, and the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing of its Personal Data as well as the risks to individuals) the security practices and policies implemented and maintained by Microsoft provide a level of security appropriate to the risk with respect to its Personal Data. Customer is responsible for implementing and maintaining privacy protections and security measures for components that Customer provides or controls (such as devices enrolled with Microsoft Intune or within a Microsoft Azure customer's virtual machine or application).
Auditing Compliance
Microsoft will conduct audits of the security of the computers, computing environment, and physical data centers that it uses in processing Customer Data, Professional Service Data, and Personal Data, as follows:
Where a standard or framework provides for audits, an audit of such control standard or framework will be initiated at least annually. Each audit will be performed according to the standards and rules of the regulatory or accreditation body for each applicable control standard or framework.
Each audit will be performed by qualified, independent, third party security auditors at Microsoft's selection and expense.
Each audit will result in the generation of an audit report ("Microsoft Audit Report"), which Microsoft will make available at https://servicetrust.microsoft.com/ or another location identified by Microsoft. The Microsoft Audit Report will be Microsoft's Confidential Information and will clearly disclose any material findings by the auditor. Microsoft will promptly remediate issues raised in any Microsoft Audit Report to the satisfaction of the auditor. If Customer requests, Microsoft will provide Customer with each Microsoft Audit Report. The Microsoft Audit Report will be subject to non-disclosure and distribution limitations of Microsoft and the auditor.
To the extent Customer's audit requirements under the Data Protection Requirements cannot reasonably be satisfied through audit reports, documentation or compliance information Microsoft makes generally available to its customers, Microsoft will promptly respond to Customer's additional audit instructions. Before the commencement of an audit, Customer and Microsoft will mutually agree upon the scope, timing, duration, control and evidence requirements, and fees for the audit, provided that this requirement to agree will not permit Microsoft to unreasonably delay performance of the audit. To the extent needed to perform the audit, Microsoft will make the processing systems, facilities and supporting documentation relevant to the processing of Customer Data, Professional Services Data, and Personal Data by Microsoft, its Affiliates, and its Subprocessors available. Such an audit will be conducted by an independent, accredited third-party audit firm, during regular business hours, with reasonable advance notice to Microsoft, and subject to reasonable confidentiality procedures. Neither Customer nor the auditor shall have access to any data from Microsoft's other customers or to Microsoft systems or facilities not involved in providing the applicable Products and Services. Customer is responsible for all costs and fees related to such audit, including all reasonable costs and fees for any and all time Microsoft expends for any such audit, in addition to the rates for services performed by Microsoft. If the audit report generated as a result of Customer's audit includes any finding of material non-compliance, Customer shall share such audit report with Microsoft and Microsoft shall promptly cure any material non-compliance.
Nothing in this section of the DPA varies or modifies the GDPR Terms or affects any supervisory authority's or data subject's rights under the Data Protection Requirements. Microsoft Corporation is an intended third-party beneficiary of this section.

Security Incident Notification
If Microsoft becomes aware of a breach of security leading to the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of, or access to Customer Data, Professional Services Data, or Personal Data while processed by Microsoft (each a "Security Incident"), Microsoft will promptly and without undue delay (1) notify Customer of the Security Incident; (2) investigate the Security Incident and provide Customer with detailed information about the Security Incident; (3) take reasonable steps to mitigate the effects and to minimize any damage resulting from the Security Incident.
Notification(s) of Security Incidents will be delivered to Customer by any means Microsoft selects, including via email. It is Customer's sole responsibility to ensure Customer maintains accurate contact information with Microsoft for each applicable Product and Professional Service. Customer is solely responsible for complying with its obligations under incident notification laws applicable to Customer and fulfilling any third-party notification obligations related to any Security Incident.
Microsoft shall make reasonable efforts to assist Customer in fulfilling Customer's obligation under GDPR Article 33 or other applicable law or regulation to notify the relevant supervisory authority and data subjects about such Security Incident.
Microsoft's notification of or response to a Security Incident under this section is not an acknowledgement by Microsoft of any fault or liability with respect to the Security Incident.
Customer must notify Microsoft promptly about any possible misuse of its accounts or authentication credentials or any security incident related to the Products and Services.

Data Transfers and Location
Data Transfers
Customer Data, Professional Services Data, and Personal Data that Microsoft processes on Customer's behalf may not be transferred to, or stored and processed in a geographic location except in accordance with the DPA Terms and the safeguards provided below in this section. Taking into account such safeguards, Customer appoints Microsoft to transfer Customer Data, Professional Services Data, and Personal Data to the United States or any other country in which Microsoft or its Subprocessors operate and to store and process Customer Data, and Personal Data to provide the Products, except as described elsewhere in the DPA Terms.
All transfers of Customer Data, Professional Services Data, and Personal Data out of the European Union, European Economic Area, United Kingdom, and Switzerland to provide the Products and Services shall be governed by the 2021 Standard Contractual Clauses implemented by Microsoft. In addition, transfers from the United Kingdom shall be governed by the IDTA implemented by Microsoft. For purposes of this DPA, the "IDTA" means the International data transfer addendum to the European Commission's standard contractual clauses for international data transfers issued by the UK Information Commissioner's Office under S119A(1) of the UK Data Protection Act 2018. Microsoft will abide by the requirements of European Economic Area, United Kingdom, and Swiss data protection law regarding the collection, use, transfer, retention, and other processing of Personal Data from the European Economic Area, United Kingdom, and Switzerland. All transfers of Personal Data to a third country or an international organization will be subject to appropriate safeguards as described in Article 46 of the GDPR and such transfers and safeguards will be documented according to Article 30(2) of the GDPR.
In addition, Microsoft is certified to the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Frameworks and the commitments they entail, although Microsoft does not rely on the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework as a legal basis for transfers of Personal Data in light of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the EU in Case C-311/18. Microsoft agrees to notify Customer if it makes a determination that it can no longer meet its obligation to provide the same level of protection as is required by the Privacy Shield principles.
Location of Customer Data at Rest
For the Core Online Services, Microsoft will store Customer Data at rest within certain major geographic areas (each, a Geo) as set forth in the Product Terms.
Microsoft does not control or limit the regions from which Customer or Customer's end users may access or move Customer Data.

Data Retention and Deletion
At all times during the term of Customer's subscription or the applicable Professional Services engagement, Customer will have the ability to access, extract and delete Customer Data stored in each Online Service and Professional Services Data.
Except for free trials and LinkedIn services, Microsoft will retain Customer Data that remains stored in Online Services in a limited function account for 90 days after expiration or termination of Customer's subscription so that Customer may extract the data. After the 90-day retention period ends, Microsoft will disable Customer's account and delete the Customer Data and Personal Data stored in Online Services within an additional 90 days, unless authorized under this DPA to retain such data.
For Personal Data in connection with the Software and for Professional Services Data, Microsoft will delete all copies after the business purposes for which the data was collected or transferred have been fulfilled or earlier upon Customer's request, unless authorized under this DPA to retain such data.
The Online Service may not support retention or extraction of software provided by Customer. Microsoft has no liability for the deletion of Customer Data, Professional Services Data, or Personal Data as described in this section.

Processor Confidentiality Commitment
Microsoft will ensure that its personnel engaged in the processing of Customer Data, Professional Services Data, and Personal Data (i) will process such data only on instructions from Customer or as described in this DPA, and (ii) will be obligated to maintain the confidentiality and security of such data even after their engagement ends. Microsoft shall provide periodic and mandatory data privacy and security training and awareness to its employees with access to Customer Data, Professional Services Data, and Personal Data in accordance with applicable Data Protection Requirements and industry standards.

Notice and Controls on use of Subprocessors
Microsoft may hire Subprocessors to provide certain limited or ancillary services on its behalf. Customer consents to this engagement and to Microsoft Affiliates as Subprocessors. The above authorizations will constitute Customer's prior written consent to the subcontracting by Microsoft of the processing of Customer Data, Professional Services Data, and Personal Data if such consent is required under the Standard Contractual Clauses or the GDPR Terms.
Microsoft is responsible for its Subprocessors' compliance with Microsoft's obligations in this DPA. Microsoft makes available information about Subprocessors on a Microsoft website. When engaging any Subprocessor, Microsoft will ensure via a written contract that the Subprocessor may access and use Customer Data, Professional Services Data, or Personal Data only to deliver the services Microsoft has retained them to provide and is prohibited from using Customer Data, Professional Services Data, or Personal Data for any other purpose. Microsoft will ensure that Subprocessors are bound by written agreements that require them to provide at least the level of data protection required of Microsoft by the DPA, including the limitations on disclosure of Processed Data. Microsoft agrees to oversee the Subprocessors to ensure that these contractual obligations are met.
From time to time, Microsoft may engage new Subprocessors. Microsoft will give Customer notice and, as applicable, update the website and provide Customer with a mechanism to obtain notice of that update of any new Subprocessor at least 6 months in advance of providing that Subprocessor with access to Customer Data. Additionally, Microsoft will give Customer notice and, as applicable, update the website and provide Customer with a mechanism to obtain notice of that update of any new Subprocessor at least 30 days in advance of providing that Subprocessor with access to Professional Services Data or Personal Data other than that which is contained in Customer Data. If Microsoft engages a new Subprocessor for a new Product or Professional Service that processes Customer Data, Professional Services Data, or Personal Data, Microsoft will give Customer notice prior to availability of that Product or Professional Service.
If Customer does not approve of a new Subprocessor for an Online Service or Professional Services, then Customer may terminate any subscription for the affected Online Service or the applicable Statements of Service for the applicable Professional Service, respectively, without penalty or termination fee by providing, before the end of the relevant notice period, written notice of termination. If Customer does not approve of a new Subprocessor for Software, and Customer cannot reasonably avoid use of the Subprocessor by restricting Microsoft from processing data as set forth in the documentation or this DPA, then Customer may terminate any license for the affected software product without penalty by providing, before the end of the relevant notice period, written notice of termination. Customer may also include an explanation of the grounds for nonapproval together with the termination notice, in order to permit Microsoft to re-evaluate any such new Subprocessor based on the applicable concerns. If the affected Product is part of a suite (or similar single purchase of services), then any termination will apply to the entire suite. After termination, Microsoft will remove payment obligations for any subscriptions or other applicable unpaid work for the terminated Products or Services from subsequent invoices to Customer or its reseller.

Educational Institutions
If Customer is an educational agency or institution to which regulations under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, 20 U.S.C. § 1232g (FERPA), apply, Microsoft acknowledges that for the purposes of the DPA, Microsoft is a "school official" with "legitimate educational interests" in the Customer Data and Professional Services Data, as those terms have been defined under FERPA and its implementing regulations, and Microsoft agrees to abide by the limitations and requirements imposed by 34 CFR 99.33(a) on school officials.
Customer understands that Microsoft may possess limited or no contact information for Customer's students and students' parents. Consequently, Customer will be responsible for obtaining any parental consent for any end user's use of the Products and Services that may be required by applicable law and to convey notification on behalf of Microsoft to students (or, with respect to a student under 18 years of age and not in attendance at a postsecondary institution, to the student's parent) of any judicial order or lawfully-issued subpoena requiring the disclosure of Customer Data and Professional Services Data in Microsoft's possession as may be required under applicable law.

CJIS Customer Agreement
Microsoft provides certain government cloud services ("Covered Services") in accordance with the FBI Criminal Justice Information Services ("CJIS") Security Policy ("CJIS Policy"). The CJIS Policy governs the use and transmission of criminal justice information. All Microsoft CJIS Covered Services shall be governed by the terms and conditions in the CJIS Customer Agreement located here: http://aka.ms/CJISCustomerAgreement.

HIPAA Business Associate
If Customer is a "covered entity" or a "business associate" and includes "protected health information" in Customer Data or Professional Services Data, as those terms are defined under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, "HIPAA"), execution of Customer's volume licensing agreement includes execution of the HIPAA Business Associate Agreement ("BAA"). The full text of the BAA identifies the Online Services or Professional Services to which it applies and is available at http://aka.ms/BAA. Customer may opt out of the BAA by sending the following information to Microsoft in a written notice (under the terms of the Customer's volume licensing agreement): the full legal name of the Customer and any Affiliate that is opting out; and if Customer has multiple volume licensing agreements, the volume licensing agreement to which the opt out applies.

California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA)
If Microsoft is processing Personal Data within the scope of the CCPA, Microsoft makes the following additional commitments to Customer. Microsoft will process Customer Data, Professional Services Data, and Personal Data on behalf of Customer and, not retain, use, or disclose that data for any purpose other than for the purposes set out in the DPA Terms and as permitted under the CCPA, including under any "sale" exemption. In no event will Microsoft sell any such data. These CCPA terms do not limit or reduce any data protection commitments Microsoft makes to Customer in the DPA Terms, Product Terms, or other agreement between Microsoft and Customer.

Biometric Data
If Customer uses Products and Services to process Biometric Data, Customer is responsible for: (i) providing notice to data subjects, including with respect to retention periods and destruction; (ii) obtaining consent from data subjects; and (iii) deleting the Biometric Data, all as appropriate and required under applicable Data Protection Requirements. Microsoft will process that Biometric Data following Customer's documented instructions (as described in the "Processor and Controller Roles and Responsibilities" section above) and protect that Biometric Data in accordance with the data security and protection terms under this DPA. For purposes of this section, "Biometric Data" will have the meaning set forth in Article 4 of the GDPR and, if applicable, equivalent terms in other Data Protection Requirements.

Supplemental Professional Services
When used in the sections listed below, the defined term "Professional Services" includes Supplemental Professional Services, and the defined term "Professional Services Data" includes data obtained for Supplemental Professional Services.
For Supplemental Professional Services, the following sections of the DPA apply in the same manner as they apply to Professional Services: "Introduction", "Compliance with Laws", "Nature of Processing; Ownership", "Disclosure of Processed Data", "Processing of Personal Data; GDPR", the first paragraph of "Security Practices and Policies", "Customer Responsibilities", "Security Incident Notification", "Data Transfer" (including the terms regarding the 2021 Standard Contractual Clauses), "Data Retention and Deletion", "Processor Confidentiality Commitment", "Notice and Controls on use of Subprocessors", and "How to Contact Microsoft".

How to Contact Microsoft
To ask questions about this DPA, to file a complaint, or to obtain information about Microsoft's processing of Personal Data, Customer may contact Microsoft as described at https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=248681. Microsoft will respond to the request within 30 days. Customer may also escalate privacy concerns to Microsoft's Chief Privacy Officer or Microsoft's data protection officer.
